scripts: runners: bossac: Fix flash offset (#29874)
zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr: doc/guides/device_mgmt/dfu.rst

.. _MCUboot boot loader: https://mcuboot.com/
.. _MCUboot with Zephyr: https://mcuboot.com/mcuboot/readme-zephyr.html
.. _MCUboot GitHub Project: https://github.com/runtimeco/mcuboot

.. _atmel_sam_ba_bootloader:

SAM Boot Assistant (SAM-BA)
===========================

Atmel SAM Boot Assistant (Atmel SAM-BA) allows In-System Programming (ISP)
from USB or UART host without any external programming interface.  Zephyr
provides all infraestructure to users develop and program their boards using
Zephyr's meta tool west, see :ref:`west-flashing` command.  Zephyr supports
devices with/without ROM bootloader and both extensions from Arduino and
Adafruit. The full support was introduced on SDK 0.12.0.

The typical command to flash the board is:

.. code-block:: console

	west flash [ -r bossac ] [ -p /dev/ttyX ]

Devices with ROM bootloader
---------------------------

This devices don't need any special configuration.  After build your
application just invoke the west flash command.

Devices without ROM bootloader
------------------------------

This devices user should define:

> 1. The flash partitions required to acomodate bootloader and image; see
>    :ref:`flash_map_api` for details.
> 2. Your board's :file:`.defconfig` file must have
>    :option:`CONFIG_USE_DT_CODE_PARTITION` Kconfig option as Y in order to
>    instructs proper Zephyr code relocationg.
> 3. You need build and flash the SAM-BA bootloader for your device

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Define lash partitions required to accomodate the bootloader and application image; see
   :ref:`flash_map_api` for details.
2. Have board :file:`.defconfig` file with the
   :option:`CONFIG_USE_DT_CODE_PARTITION` Kconfig option set to ``y`` to
   instruct the build system to use these partitions for code relocation.
   This option can also be set in ``prj.conf`` or any other Kconfig fragment.
3. Build and flash the SAM-BA bootloader on the device
```

Devices with compatible SAM-BA bootloader
-----------------------------------------

> This devices user should define:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For these devices, the user should:
```

1. The flash partitions required to acomodate bootloader and image; see
   :ref:`flash_map_api` for details.
2. Your board's :file:`.defconfig` file must have
   :option:`CONFIG_BOOTLOADER_BOSSA` Kconfig option as Y.  This will
   automatically select :option:`CONFIG_USE_DT_CODE_PARTITION` Kconfig option.
   Your board's :file:`.defconfig` file should define
   :option:`CONFIG_BOOTLOADER_BOSSA_ARDUINO` or the
   :option:`CONFIG_BOOTLOADER_BOSSA_ADAFRUIT_UF2` Kconfig option as Y.  This
   selects the proper compatible SAM-BA bootloader mode.

> 3. You need build and flash the SAM-BA bootloader for your device

Reviewer: Similar comments here as for the previous section

Typical flash layout and configuration
--------------------------------------

> For those bootloaders that resides on flash, the device tree partitions layout

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For bootloaders that reside on flash, the devicetree partition layout
```

> is mandatory.  For the devices that have ROM bootloader this should be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is mandatory.  For devices that have a ROM bootloader, they are mandatory when
the application uses a storage or other non-application partition.
```

necessary when application demands the storage_partition.  In this special

> case, the boot partition will be omitted and code_partition will starts from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
case, the boot partition should be omitted and code_partition should start from
```

> offset 0.  It is necessary define the partitions with right size to avoid

Reviewer: ```suggestion
offset 0.  It is necessary to define the partitions with sizes that avoid
```

overlaps, always.

> Typical flash layout for devices without ROM bootloader

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A typical flash layout for devices without a ROM bootloader is:
```

.. code-block:: DTS

	/ {
		chosen {
			zephyr,code-partition = &code_partition;
		};
	};

	&flash0 {
		partitions {
			compatible = "fixed-partitions";
			#address-cells = <1>;
			#size-cells = <1>;

			boot_partition: partition@0 {
				label = "sam-ba";
				reg = <0x00000000 0x2000>;
				read-only;
			};

			code_partition: partition@2000 {
				label = "code";
				reg = <0x2000 0x3a000>;
				read-only;
			};

			/*
			* The final 16 KiB is reserved for the application.
			* Storage partition will be used by FCB/LittleFS/NVS
			* if enabled.
			*/
			storage_partition: partition@3c000 {
				label = "storage";
				reg = <0x0003c000 0x00004000>;
			};
		};
	};

> Typical flash layout for devices with ROM bootloader and storage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A typical flash layout for devices with a ROM bootloader and storage partition is:
```

.. code-block:: DTS

	/ {
		chosen {
			zephyr,code-partition = &code_partition;
		};
	};

	&flash0 {
		partitions {
			compatible = "fixed-partitions";
			#address-cells = <1>;
			#size-cells = <1>;

			code_partition: partition@0 {
				label = "code";
				reg = <0x0 0xF0000>;
				read-only;
			};

			/*
			* The final 64 KiB is reserved for the application.
			* Storage partition will be used by FCB/LittleFS/NVS
			* if enabled.
			*/
			storage_partition: partition@F0000 {
				label = "storage";
				reg = <0x000F0000 0x00100000>;
			};
		};
	};

> More implementation detailed can be found at boards documentation.  As quick
> reference, these four boards configurations can be explored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More implementation details can be found in the :ref:`boards` documentation.  As a quick
reference, see these four board documentation pages:
```

.. _MCUboot boot loader: https://mcuboot.com/
.. _MCUboot with Zephyr: https://mcuboot.com/mcuboot/readme-zephyr.html
.. _MCUboot GitHub Project: https://github.com/runtimeco/mcuboot

> .. _atmel_sam_ba_bootloader:

Reviewer: Hey, I'm sorry about this but I didn't notice the first time I reviewed this PR that the documentation was going into this file.

I don't think it's really appropriate to put this here. This is about a west flash runner, not device management.

Can I suggest putting this in guides/debugging/host-tools.rst instead and generalizing that page to "flashing and debugging", since bossac only supports flashing?

@MaureenHelm -- would that work for you?

Reviewer 2: Yes

Author: Done!
